README.md, before:

# NPCLLMChat - AI-Powered NPC Conversations

Talk to NPCs in 7 Days to Die using AI! Voice or text chat with NPCs that remember your conversations.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Install these first:
- [0-SCore](https://www.nexusmods.com/7daystodie/mods/6176) - Must match game version
- [0-NPCCore](https://www.nexusmods.com/7daystodie/mods/8099) - Provides NPCs
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com/download) - AI language model

### Install Steps

1. **Download** [`NPCLLMChat-v1.0.0.zip`](https://github.com/Usimian/7DTD-LLM-NPC-Mod/releases/download/v1.0.0/NPCLLMChat-v1.0.0.zip)

2. **Extract** to your game's Mods folder:
   - Right-click the ZIP → **Extract All**
   - Browse to: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\7 Days To Die\Mods`
   - Click **Extract**
   
   Your folder structure should look like:
   ```
   7 Days To Die\
     └── Mods\
         ├── 0-SCore\
         ├── 0-NPCCore\
         └── NPCLLMChat\
             ├── NPCLLMChat.dll
             ├── ModInfo.xml
             ├── Config\
             ├── piper-server\
             └── whisper-server\
   ```

3. **Download AI model**:
   ```
   ollama pull gemma3:4b
   ```

4. **Launch game** - Everything auto-starts!

### Usage

- **Text Chat**: Type `@Hello there!` in chat
- **Voice Chat**: Hold **V** key, speak, release

---

## For Developers

### NPC Prompt Configuration

The NPC system prompt and personalities are stored in XML config files:

**Base System Prompt** (`NPCLLMChat/Config/llmconfig.xml`):
```xml
<Personality>
    <SystemPrompt>You are a survivor in a post-apocalyptic zombie wasteland...</SystemPrompt>
</Personality>
```

**Individual Personalities** (`NPCLLMChat/Config/personalities.xml`):
```xml
<Personality id="trader_gruff">
    <Name>Gruff Trader</Name>
    <Traits>You're a no-nonsense trader who's seen too much...</Traits>
</Personality>
```

### Building from Source

1. Clone the repo
2. Set game path in `NPCLLMChat/NPCLLMChat.csproj`:
   ```xml
   <GamePath>C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\7 Days To Die</GamePath>
   ```
3. Build:
   ```
   dotnet build NPCLLMChat\NPCLLMChat.csproj -c Release
   ```

**Note**: If you change the XML config files, no rebuild is needed - just restart the game. Only C# code changes require rebuilding.

### Creating a Release Package

```
package_release.bat
```

Creates `NPCLLMChat-v1.0.0.zip` for distribution. Upload to GitHub Releases.

---

## Troubleshooting

- **NPC doesn't respond**: Check `ollama list` in cmd, verify model is installed
- **Voice not working**: Check that piper-server and whisper-server folders contain `venv` directories
- **In-game diagnostics**: Press F1, type `llmchat status`

## Credits

- **sphereii** - 0-SCore and 0-NPCCore frameworks
- **Ollama** - Local LLM inference
- **Piper TTS** - Neural text-to-speech
- **Faster Whisper** - Speech recognition

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Remove Ollama auto-start to fix Steam hang on exit

README.md, after:

# NPCLLMChat - AI-Powered NPC Conversations

Talk to NPCs in 7 Days to Die using AI! Voice or text chat with NPCs that remember your conversations.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Install these first:
- [0-SCore](https://www.nexusmods.com/7daystodie/mods/6176) - Must match game version
- [0-NPCCore](https://www.nexusmods.com/7daystodie/mods/8099) - Provides NPCs
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com/download) - AI language model
- [Python 3.10+](https://www.python.org/downloads/) - Check "Add to PATH" during install (packages are pre-bundled)

### Install Steps

1. **Download** [`NPCLLMChat-v1.0.0.zip`](https://github.com/Usimian/7DTD-LLM-NPC-Mod/releases/download/v1.0.0/NPCLLMChat-v1.0.0.zip)

2. **Extract** to your game's Mods folder:
   - Right-click the ZIP → **Extract All**
   - Browse to: `C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\7 Days To Die\Mods`
   - Click **Extract**
   
   Your folder structure should look like:
   ```
   7 Days To Die\
     └── Mods\
         ├── 0-SCore\
         ├── 0-NPCCore\
         └── NPCLLMChat\
             ├── NPCLLMChat.dll
             ├── ModInfo.xml
             ├── Config\
             ├── piper-server\
             └── whisper-server\
   ```

3. **Download AI model**:
   ```
   ollama pull gemma3:4b
   ```

4. **Ensure Ollama is running** before launching the game:
   - Ollama usually auto-starts with Windows (check system tray for Ollama icon)
   - If not running, open a terminal and run: `ollama run gemma3:4b`
   - Recommended: Enable Ollama autostart (startup items)

5. **Launch game** - TTS and STT servers auto-start!

### Usage

- **Text Chat**: Type `@Hello there!` in chat
- **Voice Chat**: Hold **V** key, speak, release

---

## For Developers

### NPC Prompt Configuration

The NPC system prompt and personalities are stored in XML config files:

**Base System Prompt** (`NPCLLMChat/Config/llmconfig.xml`):
```xml
<Personality>
    <SystemPrompt>You are a survivor in a post-apocalyptic zombie wasteland...</SystemPrompt>
</Personality>
```

**Individual Personalities** (`NPCLLMChat/Config/personalities.xml`):
```xml
<Personality id="trader_gruff">
    <Name>Gruff Trader</Name>
    <Traits>You're a no-nonsense trader who's seen too much...</Traits>
</Personality>
```

### Building from Source

1. Clone the repo
2. Set game path in `NPCLLMChat/NPCLLMChat.csproj`:
   ```xml
   <GamePath>C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\7 Days To Die</GamePath>
   ```
3. Build:
   ```
   dotnet build NPCLLMChat\NPCLLMChat.csproj -c Release
   ```

**Note**: If you change the XML config files, no rebuild is needed - just restart the game. Only C# code changes require rebuilding.

### Creating a Release Package

```
package_release.bat
```

Creates `NPCLLMChat-v1.0.0.zip` for distribution. Upload to GitHub Releases.

---

## Troubleshooting

- **NPC doesn't respond**: 
  - Ensure Ollama is running (check system tray or run `ollama serve`)
  - Check `ollama list` in cmd, verify model is installed
- **Voice not working**: Verify Python is installed and in PATH (`python --version` in cmd)
- **Game hangs on exit**: This is a known Steam issue, not the mod - just wait or click Stop in Steam
- **In-game diagnostics**: Press F1, type `llmchat status`

## Credits

- **sphereii** - 0-SCore and 0-NPCCore frameworks
- **Ollama** - Local LLM inference
- **Piper TTS** - Neural text-to-speech
- **Faster Whisper** - Speech recognition

## License

MIT License
